---
author: piers
date: '2010-05-08 15:16:00'
layout: page
slug: piers-karsenbarg-cv
status: publish
title: CV
wordpress_id: '603'
layout: post
---

[Download CV here](http://piersonthe.net/Piers_Karsenbarg_CV.pdf)

**Name:** Piers Karsenbarg **Tel.:** 07950734022 **Email:** [email@piersonthe.net](mailto:email@piersonthe.net) **D.O.B.:** 10th December 1981 **Nationality:** British **Driving Licence:** Full British Licence with no endorsements  
**Personal Statement**  

A web developer who is comfortable and confident at working both as an
individual and as part of a team. I have had an interest in IT for most of my
life and try to keep abreast of all the latest innovations in Internet-related
technology. Although all my commercial work has been in C# and ASP.NET I am
also proficiant in PHP (including the use of CodeIgniter MVC framework) and am
starting to learn Django/Python. I am also a big advocate of the Open Source
software movement.

  
**Previous Employment**  
_Royal Horticultural Society_

My task here was both to develop functionality for the site (which is based on
a heavily modified version of Kentico CMS) as well as administering the two
web servers and sql server 2008 cluster that hosts the site. I was fully
involved in all aspects of the development process; from helping put together
functional specifications, to building the software and ensuring that the
build process (using both TFS and NAnt) was smooth, without errors and bugs
all the way to the live servers.

  
_Pull Digital Ltd_ - Senior Developer (Oct 09 &dash; Nov 10)

As part of a small design agency my role was primarily to turn the designs
given to me by the creative director and create the templates necessary to put
them onto the CMS platform that we use (Kentico). This also includes writing
C# code to add functionality that wasn't already available in the basic
system. As well as this, my role included supporting four Windows 2003
servers: one with Small Business Server that ran Active Directory and
Exchange, acted as the primary domain controller and Windows Sharepoint
Services; another that also ran Small Business Server that was the main file
store for documents necessary for the business; one remote web server that ran
IIS 6 and another remote server that ran SQL Server 2005. I was tasked with
ensuring that all four of these servers and all of the software on them ran
24/7 and that all the software was kept up to date as well as fixing any
issues that would prevent this from happening, including ensuring that backups
took place, that the servers were secure and that my colleagues and clients
could access what they want, when they want.

  
_UK Websites_ – Senior Web Developer (Dec 07 &dash; Oct 09)

My role here was very varied. My primary job is web development using ASP and
SQL Server. Added to this is the creation of programs to run in the background
in the form of both VB6 and C#.NET executables to process vehicle data that is
received from other companies such as AutoTrader, Experion, Perry’s and
MotorTrak. Finally, part of my job was to assist in keeping all the servers
that we used on a day to day basis. As with Pull Digital, this included a
Windows 2003 SBS, Windows Server 2008 used as a file store and two remote
servers, one with IIS 6 and one with SQL Server 2005 (both running Windows
Server 2003).

  
_Expert Training Systems_ - Web Applications Developer (July 06 &dash; Dec 07)

As part of a medium sized team of developers, my main role was to develop,
design and maintain web-based survey systems, for both staff opinion surveys
and more complex 360 feedback and appraisal systems. My role required
consideration of areas including security and authentication and writing
complex stored procedures that efficiently processed and calculated the scores
of sometimes thousands of participants. Finally I was responsible, within my
projects, for the SQL Server database that the systems used as storage.

  
_University of Surrey Students' Union_ – VP Societies and Culture (June 05 &dash;
June 06)

Worked as part of a team of six who are tasked with running all aspects of the
Students' Union. Controlled budgets for 70 Union societies totalling £100,000.
Facilitated meetings with people from all levels of the University from
students to the Vice Chancellor, including many with international
backgrounds. Organised large scale events with attendance in the thousands.
Dealt with issues of a political, religious and sensitive nature. Represented
students from all walks of life and countries within the University, the local
community and nationally.

  
_OTM Consulting Ltd._ - IT Consultant (June 03 – July 04)

Acted both as web developer and first line support, covering all aspects of IT
within a small company. Worked on projects to give them both a web presence
and sometimes, depending on the project, extra features to help with the
management of the project. Was main contact on the DeepStar project, which
included a complete redesign of the website, keeping some old features and
writing new ones. Administered the company's main server which included
Exchange 2000, Windows 2000 server and the remote web server which included
the above and IIS. Ensured that all workstations and networks were working in
order that the company can perform its day to day tasks. Made all decisions
regarding IT purchases, both systems and networking.

  
_Fortek Computers Ltd._ - Summer Intern (June 02 – Aug 02)

Worked as a Summer Intern, working on improving reports obtained from
databases. Created reports from data in Oracle databases using Crystal Reports
for use within the company's web-based reporting tool.

  
_Portsmouth Grammar School_ – IT Technician (Aug 00 – July 01)

Worked as part of IT department in a private school, supporting staff and
students with their day to day IT needs. Worked as first line support for
staff and students of the school. Administrated the Linux-based DNS server,
web server and mail server. Implemented web-based email system Set up and
rolled out all computers for use by students. Also used Fortres 101 to ensure
tamper resistant systems.

  
**Skills**  
ASP - 6 years experience MS SQL Server - 4 years experience MS IIS - 6 years
experience MS Exchange - 4 years experience MS Active Directory - 4 years
experience Apache - 3 years experience PHP - 3 years experience MySQL – 3
years experience

**Education**  
2001 – 2005 Studied Computer Science and Engineering Bsc(Hons) – University of
Surrey 1998 – 2000 A Levels in Physics, Mathematics and Electronics and A/S in
Music 1993 – 1998 10 GCSEs

References available on request.

[Download CV here](http://piersonthe.net/Piers_Karsenbarg_CV.pdf)

